# On the Usability of Reactive Programming APIs: A Mixed Evaluation

This repository contains scripts and supporting materials used for the article submitted to the [Software: Practice and Experience](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/1097024x) Journal.
The majority of the results were generated with the help of spreadsheets (e.g., questionnarie reponses, satisfaction, metric analysis, etc.), Atlas.ti 9 (qualitative analysis), and a JS script to compute the operators' frequencies.

## Spreadsheets

The spreadsheets are contained inside `/spreadsheets`. Most of them have charts, since we use their capabilities to plot the charts used as figures in the article. Many of them will have tabs to separate and facilitate the processing of each API used (i.e., Bacon.js and RxJS).
* **interview assertions.xlsx**: these were interview assertions asked during the interview and answered by using a Likert-based scale;
* **metrics.xlsx**: details the metrics' results and includes a chart showing the individual values and averages.
* **operators.xlsx**: present the frequency of operators (and the related chart).
* **questionnaire computations.xlsx**: it contains the answers for all questionnaire answers. it has three tabs: _Raw_ (raw data), _Statistics_ (which has the statistics according to every assertion and combined--- used for the results of the CDN dimensions), and _Chart_ (used to generated the chart based on data of Statistics tab).
* **satisfaction.xlsx**: used to evaluate the satisfaction level which was included in the questionnaire form.
* **task completeness.xlsx**: it was used to measure the task completeness.

## Metrics' Results
The `/metrics-results` folder contain the results of every calculated metric for the the APIs analyzed (e.g., Bacon.js and RxJS). The implementation of the metrics is detailed in the article; also, it resulted in a tool we created called [UAX](https://sol.sbc.org.br/index.php/sbes/article/view/30429) (Usability Analyzer Experience). The files follow the name pattern: _"**name_of_API - metric_name**.json"_. More information about the computations (including the JSON schema) can be found in the [UAX](https://github.com/uax-analyzer/uax) repository. Besides, a visualization of the results can be easily generated by the [UAX-UI](https://github.com/uax-analyzer/uax-ui) dashboard.

## Task Codes
The folder `/task-codes` contains the source codes produced by the participants of the study. They are organized according to the explored APIs (i.e., Bacon.js and RxJS) and further grouped by the tasks (e.g., task 1 or task 2).
> The frequency of the operators was computed by using a simple script that leverages the [ESQuery](https://github.com/estools/esquery) library. More information about the script can be found in the folder [`/operators-frequency`](https://github.com/carloszimm/reactiveusability24/tree/main/operators-frequency).

## Codebook - Citations
To protect the participants' privacy, we cann't disclosure the full interviews' transcriptions. Instead, inside folder `/citations - atlasti`, one can find the spreadsheet file `codebook-citations.xlsx` that contains all the citations we codified (codes are displayed following the pattern category:code).
